[blues music playing]
♪ ♪
- Hey, guys. What's up?
- Hey.
♪ ♪
Hank, you are not gonna
believe what I found.
Huh.
I was cleaning out
the back room for Bob.
- Yeah?
- Man hasn't touched the place
in 40 years.
Found this
stuck to an old receipt.
Oh.
I didn't know Justin
ever worked here.
Yeah, summer 2010.
Bob let him work behind the bar
a few weeks when he turned 21.
He liked it.
Didn't last long?
Nah.
Nah, keep it.
He looks real happy there.
Before everything.
It's yours.
Thanks.
♪ ♪
[faint high-pitched beeping]
[beeping grows louder]
[tense music]
♪ ♪
[cat meows]
[knocking]
Police.
I need to see your cameras.
Is this about
that robbery I filed?
- When was that?
- Then I guess not.
It was over a month ago.
It's the third one
I reported this year.
Right, that's not
why I'm here,
but I do need to see
your cameras.
Of course, let me help you.
Back here.
Help yourself.
- Thank you.
And I don't know how to make
the footage any clearer.
And no, I don't have
another angle, so.
♪ ♪
Yes.
And I want photos
of the blood spatter
in every size.
Put a rush on it. Use Greggins.
He's the best.
- Okay. Come on.
The BOLO's out.
Ford Taurus was hot.
Check local chop shops,
salvage yards.
We might get lucky
if the offender tries
to ditch the vehicle.
Go.
Car owner reported the theft.
No footage of it yet.
Ruzek's uploading the footage
from the convenience store,
and he's rushing facial rec.
- Okay. Witnesses?
Knock-and-talks
are happening right now.
Sarge! Hey, Sarge!
Found these under the dumpster.
It's possible it fell
from the victim's hand,
maybe his pocket
when he was attacked.
Huh. Party drugs.
Kid might have just bought.
All right,
run them through the lab.
Loop in Narcotics,
see what they know.
Right.
Boss, got a hit
on facial rec.
Kid's name, Noah Gorman,
19 years old.
No LKA in Chicago.
Ah, just graduated
high school last year.
Marion, Indiana.
Doesn't seem like he's been
in the city very long.
All right,
well, you head up the scene.
Start digging into Noah.
- Yeah.
All right, get me
his parents' contact info.
I'm gonna notify them myself.
- Right.
Ma'am.
Yes, that is your right.
But your son--
Mm-hmm.
Right.
No, I think I understand.
Yeah. Goodbye.
Just got off the phone
with Noah's family in Indiana.
They said this is what happens
when you live a life of sin.
Well, what's that mean?
Noah came out as gay
two months ago.
They kicked him out.
They said they
won't be needing updates
on the abduction as
Noah is no longer their son.
Whoa.
All right, he's been missing
three hours.
Tell me we have something.
No hits on the BOLO yet.
Okay. Noah himself?
Seems to fit with
what his parents told you.
Noah took a bus into Chicago
two months ago,
but we've got no hits on
shelters, hotels, hostels.
We have no idea
where he's laying his head.
Yeah, and the kid's got no
active credit cards,
no current cell phone, either.
No friends or family
in the city.
It seems like he's all alone
out here.
Got something good
from Narcotics.
The lab ID'd the drugs as MDMA
laced with meth.
The man who deals in that area
is Zach "ZJ" Jones.
He deals in red octagon pills
and is known for abducting
and torturing clients
who stiff him.
- Seriously?
- Yeah.
He's suspected of doing it
four times
but was only arrested twice
for kidnapping
and unlawful restraint.
But managed to get out
of both cases pre-trial.
- How close is it?
- Almost exact.
Jones's stats match
our offender stats
in the video to a T.
The MO matches the previous
four abductions.
And Jones's prints were found
on the baggie of drugs
at the scene.
He practically left us
a calling card.
I went to his house,
the place looks empty.
Hit the door now.
Hey, Sarge.
One more thing,
Chapman was the lead prosecutor
on both previous cases.
Team is there now.
Jones isn't home.
I'm not surprised.
Man thinks he's smart.
He will be dodging the police.
Okay, what technicalities
are we talking?
He claims illegal search
on one,
and the next was a bad victim,
drug user.
And Jones's scumbag of a lawyer
dug up some skeletons
and the victim recanted.
But there was never any doubt
Jones was our man
in both cases.
So we'll make it
foolproof this time.
We find Noah,
make it airtight together.
Hank, do you see my desk?
Are any of these
a current missing?
No, but half of these have
been personally handed to me.
Your bosses give you
a pep talk too?
Our close rate's
not where it should be.
Then work cases
you can close.
I don't get to work in my
own personal vacuum like you.
I would like to keep my job.
Nina, the kid's 19.
He's just a child.
You know what
his family told me?
They said this is his fault
because he denounced God
by being gay.
No one else
reported him missing.
There's no one looking for him.
We're all he's got.
Jones's MO
is always the same.
He abducts customers
who don't pay.
Usually,
he uses a stolen vehicle,
takes them
to a private location,
and then uses a tack hammer
to break their kneecaps.
- So it's a message.
- Yeah.
Don't ever stiff him.
Usually holds them
for about 10 hours,
and then he brings them
to a public location
and makes them crawl to safety.
- Hmm.
The last victim almost bled out
before he was found.
Wow.
- And you never uncovered
where he holds them?
- No.
Victims refuse to talk
out of fear.
Okay, so we may not know
where he held them,
but we do know
where he dropped them.
Same place he deals.
Three of the last four
were found at Sweeney Park.
I'll hit Sweeney Park.
Torres, Upton, you're with me.
Rest of you, keep digging.
[dramatic music]
♪ ♪
Still got no activity.
Copy that.
All quiet here.
Just keep circling.
I'm gonna take
another pass around.
♪ ♪
One of Jones's clients?
Yep.
All right, take it.
Hey, Voight, hang tight.
We may have something.
We're approaching now.
- Copy.
[suspenseful music]
♪ ♪
What's good here, bro?
- This ain't a party, man.
- Hey, no.
I'm just looking
to pick up, man.
My boy says this is a spot
for good ice.
You got cash?
Yeah, I got cash.
[sniffs]
ZJ's your man,
north side of the park.
But don't tell him I sent you.
Thanks, bro.
Sarge, I got a tweaker
says Jones
is on the north side
of the park.
I'm heading back
your way right now.
Copy you.
I got eyes on Jones
north side of the parking lot.
He's moving to his vehicle.
Get over here now.
Chicago PD.
Hey, wouldn't do that.
♪ ♪
- Up. Get up.
- Okay. Okay.
Got anything
that can hurt me?
Got anything that can hurt me?
Where's Noah?
You drop him here?
Where is he? Where's Noah?
Noah? Who's that?
Keep searching the park.
Let's go.
We scoured that entire park
for Noah Gorman,
didn't find him.
Where is he?
Do I need to speak clear?
I don't know anybody
by that name.
You're sure smiling at me
like you know something.
I know lots, cop.
But nothing I'm gonna tell you.
Where were you last night,
10:15 p.m.?
Hmm.
I was... driving.
- Driving?
- Yeah.
That is a really bad alibi.
We already know Noah
had your drugs on him.
- My drugs?
- Mm-hmm.
I don't got no drugs.
I don't sell no drugs.
- No. No.
We got a witness and he's
ready to testify that you do.
We got your fingerprints
on a bag of pills
that belongs to Noah.
And we got footage.
That's you.
Where's Noah Gorman?
[chuckling]
That ain't me.
Where is he?
Looks like he's in trouble.
Well, you tell me where,
we will deal.
- Lawyer.
- Something went wrong, hmm?
You had to drop him
someplace else this time.
Lawyer, lawyer,
lawyer, lawyer,
lawyer, lawyer, lawyer,
lawyer, lawyer, lawyer.
[door shuts]
You wanna give me
something to wipe that
smile off his face?
That's his playbook.
Thinks he's invincible.
He's gonna stall until
his bulldog lawyer shows up
and then they're gonna
backstop that alibi somehow.
Hey, start looking
for technicalities now.
We're not giving him any.
All right, 17 hours in,
tell me we have something.
Not at the park.
Sweeney, all nearby streets,
they were clear.
No sign of Noah.
- We towed Jones's SUV here.
No visible signs of blood yet.
No mask inside, no pipe,
no evidence.
Nothing at Jones's house.
No sign Noah was ever there.
All right, where are we at
with known associates?
Still running.
Chapman's investigative team
is helping, but nothing yet.
What about the tweaker
from the park?
He's not talking.
Hey, we got a hit
on that investigative alert.
Patrol spotted the car
used in the abduction
going southbound on Fifth
at a high rate of speed.
- It's moving now?
- Yeah.
You think somebody's
dumping it?
Or moving Noah.
Tell him we're
joining pursuit.
[tense music]
Offender vehicle approaching
the 1400 block of Fifth.
Vehicle turned west
onto Masconomet.
Offender vehicle
just crossed three lanes.
It's now moving east
on Masconomet,
high rate of speed.
Vehicle's turned north
on Fifth,
heading westbound now.
Back on Fifth?
♪ ♪
What the hell are they doing?
They're going in circles.
Patrol's lost eyes.
Repeat, Patrol's lost eyes
on the offender vehicle.
Black Taurus.
Plates Edward 271, George 54.
Last seen moving north
on the 1500 of Fifth Street.
All units in the area,
please respond.
Eyes?
Nothing.
Clear.
[siren wailing]
♪ ♪
Voight!
- You all right?
- I'm good. You?
Let's go.
Police! Get back!
50-21 Henry, got eyes
on the offender vehicle.
It's parked at
the 1600 block of Fifth.
I need cars now.
- Let me see your hands!
- Copy, 50-21 Henry.
Backup en route.
Nice and easy.
Let's go.
Easy! Get out of the car.
♪ ♪
Clear.
Get me an ambo.
Ambo now!
I need an ambo
to the 1600 block of Fifth.
Copy. Ambo en route.
Noah, I got you.
Ambulance is coming.
You're gonna be okay.
We got you now.
You're okay.
[siren wailing]
You're okay,
just try to stay with me.
We're almost to the hospital.
Can you hear me, Noah?
[machine beeping]
Can you tell me who did this?
[gasping]
Noah, did you know
the person who hurt you?
Can you tell me
what they look like?
Where they took you?
Can you hear me, Noah?
Can you hear me?
Wood.
Okay.
There were pieces
of wood everywhere.
Wood.
Okay. Okay, good.
That helps.
That helps a lot.
♪ ♪
I did that to you?
I'm sorry.
I hurt you too.
♪ ♪
- Voight.
- Hey.
How is he?
Not good.
I mean, was stabbed six times,
and he lost a lot of blood.
Doctor thinks the knife
probably missed major arteries.
I mean, we'll know more
when he's out.
There were signs of bindings
on his wrists and ankles.
No signs of sexual assault.
His eyes were stapled open.
And knees and feet?
Not broken.
Anything on the car?
Towing it now,
but it's been altered.
The handle's removed from
the inside and the handles
from the safety
and the trunk were removed too.
- Hmm.
- Sarge, you got ears in?
Yeah, I'm here.
Okay, we got a hit
on the Ford Taurus.
Traced it on PODs.
Traffic cams caught it leaving
an abandoned pallet factory
eight minutes before
Patrol clocked it.
The pallets could
explain the wood pieces
Noah mentioned, Sarge.
[suspenseful music]
♪ ♪
The place is clear.
No one's here but us.
[sniffs]
That's heavy bleach.
Noah must have
ripped a binding
from the wall to escape.
This place linked to Jones?
No. No links at all.
Yeah.
This doesn't match his MO.
This was planned.
Meticulous.
Someone held Noah here.
Stabbed him so he wouldn't die,
so he'd suffer.
Yeah, certainly doesn't feel
like punishment
for stiffing a dealer.
No, this is something else.
♪ ♪
Hey.
[machine beeping steadily]
Noah, you're okay. Hey.
You're safe.
You're in the hospital.
You just got out of surgery.
[groans]
You remember me?
Yeah.
I'm Hank.
I'm police.
Noah, is there anyone
I can call for you?
Okay. That's all right.
Listen,
if you think of someone,
you just let me know, okay?
Hey.
[sobs]
I know this is hard
to talk about,
but I really need your help.
Noah, can you tell me
who did this?
[soft dramatic music]
I know.
I know it's hard.
It's hard.
I promise, I wouldn't be
asking if I didn't have to.
[crying]
Just tell me who hurt you.
♪ ♪
I saw footage
of your abduction, Noah.
My God, you fought like hell.
And you made it out.
It's incredible.
I mean, that is incredible.
♪ ♪
I just need a little more
of that strength right now.
[sobbing]
You can do this.
You can talk to me.
I know you can.
No. No.
- Yes, you can.
- No, I can't.
- Okay. Okay.
- Please.
Okay. Okay. Okay.
Hey.
Just stay with me
a little longer.
Just clear one thing up
for me, okay?
Noah.
Can you look at these men?
You just tell me if one of them
is the one who hurt you.
♪ ♪
Him? He's the one who hurt you?
Can you look at me?
[sobs]
Noah, it's okay.
You're safe.
- It's him.
- Okay.
- Please.
- Noah, are you sure?
[sobbing]
[machine beeping rapidly]
- You'll have to leave.
♪ ♪
- Well?
- He's awake. In recovery.
Did he talk?
He ID'd Jones,
but, I mean, it was a fake ID.
It was fake?
Wait, how do you know that?
The kid was traumatized.
He would have said anything
to get me out of that room.
- He said that?
- No.
He was on the verge
of a panic attack.
I think he saw Jones,
recognized him as his dealer,
thought that's what I wanted.
All right, listen.
What hour are we on?
Uh, if we want to hold Jones,
we got to charge him right now.
Wait. I'm sorry.
I-I don't understand
the assumption.
How do we know Noah was lying?
Instinct.
Based on?
Experience,
his body language.
And the fact that
whoever tortured Noah
wasn't some pissed off
drug dealer.
This was sadistic.
Someone got pleasure
out of torturing him.
Okay, that could
still fit with--
It doesn't.
All right, we are missing
something, right?
Someone.
Who in Noah's life
is capable of this harm?
What the hell are we missing?
Hank, wait a second.
Look, I got to talk to Jones
before we release him.
Are you kidding?
He could be escalating.
It's still a possibility.
- Noah was lying.
It was a bad ID.
- Hank!
- I'm not wasting time.
Ugh.
You are hereby released
from custody without charges
as the Chicago Police
Department has found
insufficient grounds
for a criminal complaint
against you.
[apprehensive music]
Please sign here
acknowledging your release
before collecting
your personal belongings.
Yeah,
I'll just take a minute.
- Protocol is--
- One minute.
♪ ♪
I know where you deal.
I know who you deal to.
And I have every resource
that I will run at you
until you're doing 20
for trafficking.
Mm-hmm.
Or you just tell me what
you know and I will back off.
What do you know about Noah?
- What do I know?
- Yes.
What do you know
that I'm missing?
[tense music]
♪ ♪
I mean, we've dug into
every corner of Noah's life
from Chicago to Marion.
There's just not much there.
- Okay.
Well, what's not much?
This family may have strong
opinions, but they're clean.
There's no priors.
His brother Seth was
the one that gave him
the personal safety alarm
because he was worried
about Noah moving to
a modern day Gomorrah.
We looked into members
of their churches,
friends, classmates, nothing.
National database
came up empty
for other related crimes.
The eyelids,
the stabbing is unique.
Come on, there has got to be
something in Chicago.
Kid's been here for two months.
I did get a hit on that.
He was staying off and on
at a homeless shelter,
a place called
Great Lake House.
Spoke with the supervisor.
Apparently, he kept to himself.
He had no friends.
What, he talked to no one?
Apparently. That's what
the supervisor said.
All right,
history of violence there?
We ran it, ran everyone
who came through the shelter.
Petty theft, possession,
pops of prostitution,
but that's it.
What about the party drugs?
I mean, he buys,
he's using somewhere.
Mm-hmm.
But you know he's not 21 yet.
So we got nothing
from the local bars.
Naturally, we got raves
and underground parties,
but nobody's talking to us.
Could it be random attack?
Stranger abduction?
- Eh.
Sarge, offender matches
every stat for Jones,
down to his shoe size.
Maybe the right answer
is the simple one.
Noah's telling the truth.
[phone buzzes]
You got something?
So please, enlighten me,
Sergeant,
why do I have an ASA
coming into my office
telling me you released
a known violent offender,
one who was just
positively ID'd?
Because I did.
We didn't have a case on him.
My investigators
went back to Noah,
and they found his statement
to be credible.
Is that so?
They also uncovered
one of Jones's
old social media profiles,
and it was filled
with homophobic rants.
Hank, this is motive.
It's why he escalated.
This was a hate crime.
So Noah was the only gay man
that Jones sold drugs to?
It was a false ID.
- You cannot know that.
- Of course I can.
I've seen the look before.
Hell, I've seen it
on my own son.
That child was broken.
He would've ID'd the Pope
to get me out of there.
All right, enough.
You have a credible,
sympathetic witness
with a positive ID
and a repeat violent offender
who has beaten
the system twice.
Yeah,
and he will beat it again
if we arrest him
for a crime he didn't commit.
[tense music]
Hank Voight.
Arrest warrant's
already signed.
Go arrest him.
- Sir, he--
That's a direct order.
You don't act unilaterally.
Arrest him.
♪ ♪
- Gun!
- Chicago PD!
Drop your weapon!
He's coming to you.
Don't do it.
Drop the gun.
Y'all think you can frame me?
Don't try me, Jones.
Drop the weapon.
- I didn't do this.
- What did I say?
Put the gun down!
♪ ♪
Up high, turn around.
Get them high, turn around.
I didn't do this.
Bring him inside.
- What?
- Inside.
- Taking him to the dist--
- Inside now.
- Yeah.
- Whoa, whoa, whoa.
You're not gonna beat
a confession out of me, cop.
I didn't do jack.
We're just gonna talk.
I'm not talking to you.
Yeah, you are.
You think
we're trying to frame you?
You're right.
CPD is trying to bury you
for this.
You're a dead man walking.
- I didn't do--
I know you didn't.
So shut up and listen.
I'm gonna ask you
some questions
and you're gonna
answer them truthfully
or you're going to end up
in a cell
that you can't get out of this
time, do you understand me?
That was one of the questions.
Do you understand?
- Yeah.
Did you sell to Noah?
- Good.
For how long?
- A couple months.
- Who did he buy with?
- No one.
He buys alone.
- Every time?
- Every time.
- At Sweeney Park?
Yeah.
Where did he live?
- I don't know.
- Come on!
He's got to have friends,
family,
people he parties with,
a place he crashes.
What am I missing?
Who would want to harm him?
What?
Why do you think I know
more than you?
You should be asking
your own people.
What does that mean?
Police have been
following the kid.
- What?
- Yeah.
For a month,
every time he picked up,
there was a black car
following him.
Was it a--
was it a black Taurus?
I figured it was Narcotics
trying to get me for a--
Was it a black Taurus?
I don't know.
Yeah, maybe, yeah.
- It wasn't the police.
That was the offender
stalking him.
Did you see him?
Did you see his face?
Nah.
I didn't.
♪ ♪
Right, there is no way in
hell that the only person
that ever saw this car
is Noah's drug dealer.
There's just not that
many people to ask.
Jones sells in Sweeney Park
on that corner
because it's a dead zone.
There's no cameras.
Tweakers aren't talking.
We don't have the car
on traffic cams.
Come on, anywhere?
Except for the
last two days, no.
It's almost impressive.
Did you get anything
from Noah?
No.
Techs found a burner
at Jones's house.
It pinged it on a tower
near the Dan Ryan
during the time
of the abduction.
Traffic cam confirms
Jones at the wheel.
Alibi's real.
Come on, there's got to be
more on this car.
What else we got?
All right.
All right, it's late.
Just go home, change out,
get some rest.
Get out of here.
- Sarge, I can stick around.
- Hailey, no.
We'll start fresh
in the morning.
Go. Go ahead.
[apprehensive music]
♪ ♪
Yeah, that's him.
But like I told
your other officers,
I never saw him with anyone
or saw a car following him.
He's a quiet one.
Did he mention any friends, associates?
Hardly said a word.
I don't think he knew
anybody here.
He mostly slept.
Thanks.
No, I don't remember him.
And I don't remember
ever seeing a car.
Why? Did--did he do something?
Doesn't seem like the type,
does he?
No, he doesn't.
Always had the idea
that he wanted to be alone.
I tried to talk to him
about his singing once.
He was polite, but he clearly
didn't want any conversation.
Singing?
Mm-hmm.
I heard him singing
in the bathroom once.
Gospel.
He has a beautiful voice.
I hope he doesn't lose that.
[suspenseful music]
♪ ♪
Who the hell are you?
Hey.
No, no, no, no.
It's okay.
Hey.
I'm not gonna ask you anything.
You don't have to talk.
I did want to say some things.
Would that be okay?
First--
first, I want to tell you
that the man you ID'd,
your dealer, Zach Jones,
I mean, his alibi is airtight.
He couldn't have abducted you.
That's okay.
These things happen.
Look, Noah, people
that are scared or in shock,
they make the wrong ID.
Happens all the time.
It's okay.
Noah, you said something to me
in the ambulance.
You said
you thought you hurt me too.
Noah, you didn't hurt me.
[soft dramatic music]
Did you do something
that caused this?
No.
I didn't think so.
So the only one responsible
is the monster who did this.
And I'm gonna find him.
I promise you,
I am gonna find him.
And I'm gonna be right here
with you in this thing
until you're able to talk
to me, you understand?
You're not alone.
I'm not gonna let you be alone.
♪ ♪
Please, just hear me out.
Have a coffee with me
and hear me out?
Jones didn't do it.
You were right.
But because of his arrest,
techs found a hard drive
in his basement,
and it had footage of him
abusing two other victims.
So we've got him on those.
He's going away.
That's good.
Any leads on Noah's abductor?
No, not yet,
but, uh, there will be.
Hank, I'm sorry
I went over your head.
I made the call
I thought was right.
I felt it
that Jones was our guy.
I was sure of it.
Do you know that feeling?
[scoffs]
Hank, it's my job
to be checks and balances.
If it were
the other way around,
I think you would have done
the same thing.
Yeah, you're probably right.
You do this, you know.
You ask me for help,
you bring me in,
and then...
you push me away.
And it's like--
it's like you don't know
whether you want to be alone
on your island or not.
♪ ♪
Hi. Sorry.
I don't know where I put the
painkillers from the hospital.
It's been three hours.
Bathroom cupboard,
top shelf.
- Thank you.
- Mm-hmm.
He had nowhere to go.
♪ ♪
[dramatic music]
[wolf howls]